---
date: "2018-10-14"
title: "On difficult people"
---

---

I am sorry to hear about your situation with your current boss. Culture has made it unwelcoming in some sense to divulge certain kind of difficulties; In particular, when we are bothered in some deep emotional way that we fear might expose an unconventional weakness in us and that we might not be understood.  So my first advice is this: be always keen to share a difficult passage with friends who you can trust; Unsolved burdens may become heavier by the day, and one blessing of friendship is that it always is a helping hand in times of trouble.

From what you tell me your boss is a tough man, he criticises without feedback as if the sole purpose of his critique was injury. You try to press him in such cases, you try to understand *'why?'*, you are a reasonable man; Indeed you cherish criticism when it holds further questions that leads to growth. Yet here is someone who seemingly does so with the sole purpose of putting you down. Here is someone who you must daily face with the daunting prospect of negative remarks devoid of logic. Obviously if things are intolerable one should do the necessary to find oneself under more positive circumstances. Sometimes however it is tolerable but barely so, and further, circumstance will demand that we remain. So assuming this is the case, I will try and give you my advice.

**Let us first imagine the following scenario:**

You are a street artist close to a bank, everyday the same man comes to his office, looks at your work and gives you yet another snarky comment about how trash would have a better shot at an *art exposé*. The artist who rarely gets any other sort of feedback - since unbeknownst to him, the bank is the only office building close by - sulks, he knows that the bankers opinion is meaningless, yet he feels hurt. Not only is he hurt that his work is unfairly criticised, but he is also hurt by the fact that this person would so obviously confront him with the sole purpose of hurting him. Everyday the artist will wake up, give his best as he works on his newest piece. Everyday the banker will see just how dedicated the artist is as he quickly rushes by, but he will nonetheless give him another undeserved remark.

If we were to advise the artist we would obviously tell him to go to a more popular road to get more exposure (while simultaneously getting rid of the antagonist), this would be as the old saying goes, *two old people on a wheel-chair* (With one wheel-chair we solve two problems). Imagine however that he must for whatever reason stay. Then what would you tell the artist? Imagine he had already confronted the man in question, and the man had seemed to agree, yet continued in his usual routine the following day. What else could the artist do?

1. <a name="part_1"></a> **Put things in perspective.** </a>There always is a backstory to everything, while it might not seem like there is, there is in fact a reason for the harsh criticism. Perhaps the banker once wanted to become an artist but all his life his father who was a prominent economist at the central bank was grooming him for finance and viciously destroyed any sort of artistic dream. If this were true, and the artist were aware of this, he would feel not anger, but sadness: he would feel compassion. While it is impossible to know the exact circumstances that lead to the bankers behaviour it is almost certain that he had to suffer as much if not more to gain such a trait for himself.
2. **Finally get those long overdue divorce papers with pride.** If the artist is getting hurt it means that the criticism of the banker - as unsound as it may be - is able to poke holes somewhere that reaches the inner most feelings of the artist. There are two things that are at play here, the first is self worth: negative harsh criticism if repeated and by someone of stature can put us in a weak-spot especially if there is already some sort of self doubt. If - and this is an almost certainty - the artist asks himself his work is any good, then repeated negative criticism can and will feed this fire which has lead many skilled people to lose interest in their art. The second thing at play is the question of malice. If this person is out there to get us, to bring calamity to our world, then the thought of a daily antagonist is a terrifying one. [(See part 1. )](#part_1)

It is nice and easy to say these things from the comforts of my room. The issue of practice versus theory has been with humanity since antiquity. It is hard to put this into practice, in effect my advice is this: put things in perspective and do not doubt your self-worth. I cannot remind you to put things in perspective, but I can remind you of how formidable a character you are. You are *noble*, *humble*, *always looking for a solution and ready to help anyone in need*: **The recipes of a great friend.** I trust that in the future you will more readily share with me your burdens so that I may do my duties as a friend. It is a long and difficult road ahead, there is no reason to shoulder it alone.
